Q : 19 What is difference between HTML and XHTML?

Ans.

HTML is a markup language that was used to build the world's first webpage. Ever since this webpage was created, there have been a lot of modifications and variations done in the HTML language, such as adding the concept of error handling, addition of new features such as a table, etc., because of which XHTML came into the picture.

Both languages are used to build web and Android applications. However both languages are the two sides of the same coin, but there are some major differences between the two.

HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language, whereas XHTML stands for Extensible Hypertext Markup Language. It is an extension of HTML and is stricter and more structured compared to HTML.

* HTML :

1. HTML is an SGML-based language. That is, it defines the standard for generalizing the markup languages for documents. SGML stands for Standard Generalized Markup Language.

2. HTML is not a case-sensitive language.

3. HTML empty elements do not require a closing tag at the end, not even a "/" symbol to signify the end of the tag.

4. The tags and attributes in HTML can be specified either in lowercase or uppercase since it is not case-sensitive.

5. The HTML document requires a minimum of four tags to create an HTML page that is <html>, <head>, <title>, and <body>. The <!DOCTYPE> declaration is not necessary for HTML.

6. Some HTML elements may function properly without a closing tag.

7. Some elements in HTML may be improperly nested; that is, they do not need to be closed in the order in which they are opened.

8. It is not mandatory to put quotes while using the attributes in HTML.

9. It allows attribute minimization, where boolean attributes can omit their values. For example, "checked".

10. The webpage is displayed even if the HTML document has some errors in it.

11. It can have a filename extension of.html or.htm.

* XHTML :

1. XHTML is an XML-based language, which means it manipulates and processes data using XML technologies.

2. XHTML is a case-sensitive language.

3. XHTML empty elements must always be closed; that is, there must be a "/" symbol at the end of the empty element.

4. All XHTML elements and attributes must be in lowercase since it is a case-sensitive language.

5. An XHTML document must contain the <!DOCTYPE> declaration followed by the <html>, <head>, <title>, and <body> tags in its document to create a webpage. Moreover, the xmlns attribute in <html> tag is also necessary.

6. All the XHTML elements must be closed. Even the empty elements also require a closing tag.

7. All XHTML elements, however, must be properly nested within each other; that is, they must be closed in the order in which they were opened.

8. It is mandatory to put quotes around an attribute in XHTML.

9. It does not allow attribute minimization. All the attributes must be written in full attribute-value pairs.

10. There is a more strict error handling in XHTML.

11. Its filename extension can be .xhtml,.xht, or .xml.
